Oct. 12, 2023

i've just finished reading all of BLIND ALLEY, a strip by cartoonist
adam de souza. it's a strip about kids in some town wherein strange
things tend to happen or so. found it by recommendation of kc green,
internet cartoonist laureate. it's not my speed, and i wouldn't
recommend it to anyone that i know personally, but there's enough
substance contained within that i felt it necessary to type up my
thoughts on the matter. this will go unedited.

as ive gotten older (24), i find that most things made by adults about
being a child don't hold much water. or, aren't worth the effort.
it says a lot about a person to turn their artistic skill backwards in
a sense. putting hours into cultivating a distinct creative personhood
from a pencil and then trying to write about a person in the past.
people in the past don't exist, nothing in the past does. all an artist
(set on creating works about childhood, the time period) can do is
grasp at ghosts floating in the back of their mind. its fruitless work.

this opinion ive devised for myself leaves 2 glaring holes. 
one, "so youre saying adults shouldn't write anything with children?". 
two, "so is everything created regarding the past useless?"

on the first, no, not at all. adults are, as a whole, more competent
artists than children. the discrepency lies in the fact that creating
about "being a child" and the form of reflection that entails is
inherently difficult and hazy. the memories of when someone is a certain
age is clouded by the passage of time filtering every childhood memory
etched onto the brain. its degraded. it isnt "how i felt when i was 9",
its "how i feel about how i felt when i was 9". there is probably
a name for this sort of dilemma. lemme give it a cool-sounding one.
"the soft problem of authorship", it's soft because i said so.

anyway this sorta deal is not the fault of the author, adam de souza. 
whose work i can say is impeccable. this is my personal tangent on 
this specific subject. avoiding it is impossible, unless you are 
currently a child and also an award-winning cartoonist.

now time for the real meat. why do i take umbrage with BLIND ALLEY.
or, how do i feel about how adam de souza feels about childhood.
maybe its the art itself? the lines in places constituting an
"artistic style". not the depiction of childhood, how its presented.
my vision for these things is very limited. at a glance, de souza's 
art takes a lot from old peanuts strips, dr. seuss, and possibly
some other 3rd thing.

is it wrong that it looks like this? not always. its very charming
in fact. there is a lot of tonal clash when the cartoon six year olds
have premonitions of death or talk of the afterlife. at those points
the comic feels more like the author's words than part of a work.
you get where i'm coming from, right? sometimes i'll see a piece in
which the author focuses a lot on getting across very specific things.
all communication is for "getting across" "specific things", but
i mean in a more concrete sense. as opposed to a work where its
theme, it's aboutness is underlying, some will use the medium to dress
up a specific thought or feeling or memory. this i feel is unbecoming
of an artist. please do not spell out your gripes over human mortality,
i would've understood greater if you had them not say anything at all.

oh back to the art style. nostalgia-coded pen lines. grabbing things
from the past like this is a "cheat" for instant relatability. it
looks like something i would remember, it feels like the past.
which is hard to stomach when the material is present day. maybe
adam's childhood was like some of the content in BLIND ALLEY, but
it doesn't ring any bells for my childhood.

why does it matter if BLIND ALLEY is relatable to me, specifically?
well, i'm the only person that i currently am, so it matters 100%
from my perspective. to other people it's probably very relatable.
or not. the ones who do self-select. they can also see what
adam de souza sees. adam de souza is the only person who could've
made BLIND ALLEY, and the people who find it relatable are
similar if not in the same social group as adam de souza.

so we've gotten to "BLIND ALLEY is actually genre fiction".
hooray for us. metalheads like metal. is there a problem here?
can i go? actually you can't. i have determined through
extreme mental calculus that creating genre fiction out of
the universal human experience of childhood might be amoral.

what? surely you can't be serious!

well, let's give it a bit. what do you do if you don't see
yourself in someone else's work. what do you do if, in the
world the author has made, you're not in it? there's no
obligation on the author's part to have you yourself in
the story. the author could make it just about themselves.
but no one is ever truly alone, people live on earth
whether they like it or not.

well if i'm not in the story, then the author must not
talk to people like me. and my friends tend to be
people like me so the author probably wouldn't be my 
friend. alright, roll it back. let's not get ahead of
ourselves. representation in media is important but
return to earth for a second. this is a story "about"
childhood. meant to relate to people who have once
been a child, which is everyone. BLIND ALLEY doesn't
fit this description. it's introspective mystery
fiction with kids as the main characters. i could
not find much about the purported "melancholy of
being young" within.

maybe i just dont like being lied to
