Oct. 25, 2023

7:46 am

i think now is as good a time as any to reflect on my recent experiences
fighting children on twitter.com. despite what common psychology may tell
you, its very spiritually rewarding fighting a losing battle. im serious.
theres a reason why martyrdom is so powerful. yes i am saying im a martyr
for defending Notorious User SuperScratchkat on twitter. i fully believe
when i am old and gray i will look proudly on my past self for having
done this.

recently i've felt that a lot of pain near me is caused by cowardice.
the feeling that most of the time, if you err on the side of caution,
you will be correct. this is true approximately two-thirds of the time.
the other one-third of the time adds up very quickly. i had another whole
paragraph of examples from recent memory, but it was too mean and would've
probably gotten me some very angry twitter replies from some very angry
children.

back on topic, the concept of "trolling" has really fallen out of favor.
i guess that comes with the internet becoming normalized among literally
everyone at all times. getting messed with on the internet isn't novel
or new anymore. what was bespoke harrassment is just regular harrassment now.
the trolling of the distant past was not better. the annals of Christory
from any lens besides the one the cwcki presents looks and feels like the
targeted harrassment and bullying of a mentally challenged queer person.

aside: the cwcki people have a pretty good grasp of where they stand in the
present day. dont interact with chris, dont feel bad for chris, the chris
you knew doesnt exist anymore, whatever hatred you feel for chris is
fundamentally unjustified and whatever empathy you have in your heart for chris
is misplaced. rules for talking to anyone on the internet if i've ever
seen em.

the normal vectors of trolling do not exist anymore, nor do the typical
responses. a target would present itself, harrassment would take place,
and then time passed. there was a something outside of the internet for
both parties to attend to and to take up time. the afflicted can turn
the computer off. Just Close Your Eyes. since always, the barrier to exit
on the internet has been zero.

this isn't the case (?) anymore. my instincts tell me that something i knew
about the world has changed. the internet has always had the ability to
physically harm people, its just the internet has congealed around a few
distinct millions-strong blobs of people. everyone now goes to your high
school. whatever happened to that guy dressed up as a call of duty character
who killed himself. did that ever get wrapped up?

i'm remembering team avo vids with extremely rose-tinted goggles at the
moment. griefing was always much less harmful than trolling, mostly due to
the constricted medium of A Video Game. you have one match timer's worth to
ruin this gamer's day. trolling is an artform unbound by time, you may put
in as much effort as you wish to make this gamer's life a living hell.

does any victim of online harrassment actually deserve it? i think so.
eny sure does, fuck that guy. what a loser. anyway. i read this bad
webcomic about queer teens on the internet, except one of them was
acquitted of murder. which, don't get me wrong, is an interesting
premise. the execution wasn't bad either (the art sucked in a very
refreshing and thoughtful way). its a very fun sorta moral problem to roll
around in your head once you get the hang of it.

what's the harm in letting an (alleged) murderer reblog a picture of a bunny
every so often? they can walk down the street, go to walgreens, pick out what
kind of vitaminwater they like (mine's the zero calorie lemonade one!), all
without hassle or getting haranged by some teenager. why is having a tumblr
different?

the justifications for trolling are hard to come by nowadays. the only one that
people tend to use is moral superiority. look at this fucked up specimen, lets
punish them and all that. not to say its good behavior, but it checks out as
"something that humans would do". you never seen anyone doing it "for teh lulz"
as one would say. there's still people who you can yell at cause its funny
(hi wil stancil!), but coordinating a day+ worth of time to making someone's
life worse for a laugh just isn't in the cards for anyone. the stakes are too
high. what if the troll attempt FAILS and everyone thinks you're a MEAN LOSER
forever. it's gotta seem like the right thing to do to offset the pain.

-- gotta do my shoutouts now --

i do want to say bravo taylor for coming back and making a response vid.
that takes some balls. did you know he's married now? shit he's doing better
than all of us. proud of the guy. be glad you don't have to voice toilet
anymore.

uh what else. loren graduated from scad, can you believe it? magna cum laude
too, he's pretty good at drawin' them cartoons i tell you what. i hope he
makes it big in the industry. no really, i do. i hope he marries some lady
that drew ed edd n eddy pornography in high school and he gets a CN show that
lasts 3 seasons.

